hey there monster gardeners today we're
going to be discussing a little bit
about double-ended bulbs they're safe
use and installation and why that's such
an important thing
what is Dublin involve we're all used to
the standard screw in mobile socket type
involved everybody's seen one of those
what we're talking about today
specifically are these double ended
bulbs right here this particular one
happens to be made by Philips for the
Gavita lighting product since we started
selling kavita's we've sold thousands
and thousands and thousands of them and
only ever had one have an issue where it
arced out and caused a bulb in the
reflector to no longer be usable we just
started selling these a home gardener
type units hoods and reflectors just
recently they've only just come out to
the home market this particular one is
called a de Vos it is distributed like
by sunlight supply and as you can see if
you don't install the ball correctly
this can happen to you gentlemen
purchased this hood from us because he
couldn't get it from his people shop
couldn't figure out how to install the
ball correctly himself so this
particular shop in Rocklin California
decided that they would help him out and
install it for him well as you can see
this bulb was not installed correctly it
is intended to be installed in the
horizontal position like this see how
the tabs are horizontal not the vertical
position like this
so this bulb was installed vertically
forced into the socket like that it
arced out very nearly caused a fire that
could have cost this man his home his
livelihood or possibly even his life
that's why it's important to be educated
on such products as needs the
double-ended bulb is the newest platform
for our industry and in the years to
come
I don't think there's going to be a
whole lot of rollers that are
using the traditional mobile based
socket type of bulbs like these simply
because of our rating the amount of
light intensity all those things that
you get from one of these bulbs are so
much greater than their thousand watt
counterparts be it high-pressure sodium
or metal halide these just put off so
much more power so much more light
intensity equaling bigger yields better
quality better product so we believe
definitely that these are the wave of
the future that's why we've been selling
them for the past three years to
commercial growers now that these are
available to the residential grower we
just wanted to make sure that something
like this doesn't happen to you this is
a crying shame right here so do you have
these two plastic clips here and that's
actually what's responsible for holding
the bolt in place you'll notice it there
are two wires on this bulb
the wires stick out so that they can go
into the terminals now on the de Vos
here what ended up happening was they
couldn't get it to make connection
sitting in a in a horizontal position
like this our vertical position I'm
sorry like this so they actually bent
the wires down so then they would make
contact inside of the reflector
obviously if you're having to bend the
wires or something like that there's
something wrong so this is the correct
way to install a double-ended wall make
sure that the wires are straight they go
down to the contacts and you'll feel
that the bulb is firmly seated at the
bottom the clips very simply slide in
left and right make sure the bulb is
secure and you're done it is so much
faster than your traditional mobile
socket type of bulb
you're gonna have your reflector and
your bulb installed correctly like this
you're not going to have a fire like
this but I got a path beyond it's
different right
no any Papillon it has a different
reflector but that's it as you can see
the e Papillon all of these double-ended
bulbs they have the same basic setup and
that is a double-ended bulb that goes
into the socket and you should never
have to force these in these are
spring-loaded clips
once they are fastened in place they're
not coming loose as you can see check to
the bulb is tight your bulb is installed
properly this goes for an AC de a de vos
and adjust the wings with a double-ended
socket on there then keep happy on the
kavita I'm sure there's going to be more
to come out in the future
but these are how all of these work and
we just want you guys to be educated so
something like that happened to this
customer here doesn't happen to you
thank you so much for tuning in to
monster Gardens comm if you have any
questions or comments please give us a
call and make sure to do some shopping
online our great day